We respectfully request the great witness, clasping our hands and
reciting the
sacred name of the Buddha, praying for his protection.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni. Dear fellow
practitioners, today I
have a sharing session mainly with you who
have made the vow to renounce worldly life and dedicate
your lives
to the truth. Some of you say that
renouncing worldly life sounds somewhat
disheartening,
according to the old perspective. But now,
let's just say that we are
dedicating our lives to the truth.
That is the truth, isn't it, dear practitioners?
From countless lifetimes, we have sent countless
lives into
delusion, and in this lifetime, we have decided to
dedicate our lives to the
truth.
To achieve the
truth, we must recognize ourselves.
This is the
wisest decision
we have made in countless lifetimes.
This is a wise decision;
we must evaluate ourselves in this way,
we must see the truth as it is,
not just that...  We are people who
abandon our families to seek something.
It's not noble, but
we clearly understand our choice: to
entrust our lives
to the
ultimate truth. We
call this beginning to live with
truth, to live with
ideals, whereas from countless lifetimes before, we were forced to live, forced to
live. Yen explains this point to you, esteemed fellow practitioners,
so we can all contemplate it together.
For example, in
a very small interaction in life,
we say, "I must behave this way, right? If I'm
not wise, I live; if I'm not wise, I die." So,
I am forced to be wise because
if I am wise, I can live, right? If I'm
not wise, I die. So, to
live, I must
live, I must live this way. I
must do this because if I don't do
this, my superiors won't do anything; if they do
n't agree,
I
must follow my superiors' wishes, right, esteemed fellow practitioners? I must follow my wife's wishes, so I
cannot have a choice with my mother and my family.
I must
follow my mother's wishes, I must follow
my wife's wishes, I must follow her wishes.
My boss said that in life, to live, one must live
like that, right? So, in many lifetimes, we
must live like that to survive, we
must treat others like that to
survive. But if we become monks or nuns,
we can
live, live with our ideals,
live with our ideals.
Our ideal is to progress towards absolute truth,
absolute goodness, and
in absolute truth.
Do you see, dear fellow practitioners, that we are allowed to live, or
must
live, to live like that? I am allowed to live,
I am allowed to live according to my own will,
right? And we have just taken ourselves as the
truth, right, dear fellow practitioners?
We are allowed to
live in the Buddha's teachings, right,
dear fellow practitioners? I am allowed to live in the
Buddha's teachings, but does anyone say that I must
live in the Buddha's teachings? I
am allowed to live in the Buddha's teachings, is
that true?
Because the Buddha's teachings are
our own choice, right? And if we
live according to our own choices,
what do we call it? I am allowed to live according to
my ideals, I am allowed to live according to
my own choices. I am not dependent on
anyone.  What is it, dear fellow practitioners? Those who
practice Buddhism are those who
live according to their
ideals, who live the way they choose, and
live fully according to their chosen path. Do you
see that you can live the way you choose
and live fully according to your chosen path? Those of you who are
practicing ordained as monks or nuns, do you see
that? Do you see it correctly?
The path we take is
chosen by ourselves, and
we are not deluded by
this path at all. Here, I will analyze this in detail for you, dear
fellow practitioners. For example, you, dear male practitioners,
want to get married to be happy. You, dear
female practitioners, want to get married to be
happy. If we don't have the intention of
becoming monks or nuns, then
we don't know what this happiness will entail.
That is, we don't know what our wife will do
in her life living with us.
We don't know about the happiness of being
with our wife; we don't know. Isn't that a state of
uncertainty? We
don't know. We get married hoping for
happiness, but we don't know what a
wife is like, what life will be like afterward. The same goes for
getting married; it's all in this state of
uncertainty.  As for us, we study
Buddhist teachings, and before you
embark on this path to liberation,
you must clearly understand that you
must eradicate all
sources of defiled thoughts. You know this beforehand,
because you know it beforehand,
and in this lifetime
or many lifetimes to come, you live with the intention of
eradicating defiled thoughts. You
are living according to your own ideal, are
n't you? If
we get married, we ca
n't live according to our initial intention of getting married
for happiness,
but it doesn't turn out as we wish.
Only through the path of monastic life can
we live according to our own desires.
That is, the sole purpose of a
monastic practitioner is to eradicate all defiled thoughts.
When those thoughts are eradicated, one becomes a
saint, right? And eradicating
those thoughts means you are in control of yourself. Isn't that being
master? You live your
own life, do your
own work, and are not dependent on
anything in the world. Those who become
monastics are...  Those who are free to live,
while those who remain bound by interactions, are forced
to
live under the desired interactions of
others, is
n't that right? So, dear fellow practitioners who have renounced worldly life, do you
find happiness? Do you feel you
have great blessings? Do you see
your path as noble?
Very noble indeed.
Whether our actions are
fast or
slow depends on each of
us
wanting to live to practice.
To live to practice our ideals.
We are
living with our own ideals,
living to
achieve success and fulfillment of
our own ideals. Remember
this, and we will never tire. We are living
with our own ideals, we are
living to achieve our own ideals.
Only those who have renounced worldly life can do
this. Only those who have renounced worldly life can live
with their own ideals, and every second,
every minute, every thought, is fulfilling
their ideals. Only those who have renounced worldly life, following the
Buddhist path and practicing the Buddha's teachings,
can
live by their ideals, practice to
achieve them. For lay people,
wanting to conceive and achieve an
ideal is very difficult.  Isn't that right, dear fellow
practitioners?
Therefore, lay people have the saying, "Man
proposes, God disposes."
But for those who have renounced the world, "Man disposes,
and God disposes." But for those who have renounced the world, "Man disposes, and God disposes,"
not depending on anything else. Dear fellow
practitioners, you must understand
how self-reliant this is, and we will succeed. We do
n't blame circumstances for our failures. Those who have renounced the world
never blame circumstances.
Therefore, those who have renounced the world must let go of
that. Only then can we reach our goal. We do
n't blame circumstances for anything; we
only assess the circumstances, not blame them.
For example, in the outside world,
people might say, "Because you insulted me, I
hit you," right,
dear fellow practitioners?
But for those who have renounced the world, they
assess the circumstances. They assess the circumstances—that person hitting me is an
assessment, but I hit them because of my
anger, not because they
hit me. Because I
still have anger, I haven't calmed my mind,
so I hit them back. And I begin to
eliminate that initial anger.
That's how those who have renounced the world don't blame others.  In a given
situation, one must recognize the circumstances and
not identify one's own mind in order to transform it.
So, is it possible to live
by one's ideals without transforming one's mind? That is
the choice we are making. Therefore, no matter the
circumstances, we can always
live with our ideals. There is never a
moment when we cannot live with our own ideals. Nothing
in
this world can prevent us from practicing our
ideals.
Nothing, not even the most evil person, can hinder
our ideals. Those who have renounced worldly life must
understand this. Therefore,
in Buddhism, the first practice that a
Buddhist disciple must perform is repentance and self-recognition. Always
recognizing oneself
is the first practice that a
monastic must accomplish in order to
fulfill
their ideals. In repentance,
there is self-acknowledgment and the faults pointed out by others. Self-
acknowledgment means always looking at faults calmly
in all circumstances before
looking at others' faults.
In this matter,
what is my fault so that I can transform myself?
My mind, before
becoming a practitioner, was like this.
Then, for the common good, I pointed out the faults of
others to do good
together. Those who have
renounced the world understand the Dharma and
will act
accordingly. When we see that our minds still
harbor
the hidden intention of pointing out faults to
blame others, we should not point out faults. Dear fellow
practitioners, if you understand this point, don't point out faults
to blame others. Instead,
acknowledge your own faults,
leaving others' faults as they are. Because if
we point out faults with the intention of blaming others,
we are creating
karma. Dear fellow practitioners, if you understand this point, you are
creating new karma.
The act of acknowledging faults is the transformation of karma.
We must clearly define the transformation of ordinary
karma into sacred karma. First, we
must know how to acknowledge and correct our mistakes. Only then
can we increase our wisdom, increase our
blessings, and quickly eliminate all defilements from our minds.
If anyone doesn't know how to practice, they must
start practicing. If anyone has practiced a little, they
must diligently continue on the path to the
goal. We cannot hold hands and drag each other along the
way.  Reaching the goal of sainthood
cannot be achieved by holding hands
or pulling each other along; it is through one's own mind that one
will purify it.
No one else can purify
your mind for you; they can only provide
external support, guidance, and encouragement. But you yourself
must know how to acknowledge your
own faults and how to
control your mind to accept the
criticism of others. You must control your mind
by taming the
unpleasant feelings, the sensations of being offended by others—
all of that is ego, clinging to fame.
It gives rise to all the
feelings that arise
when we are criticized—that is ego, and it is this
feeling that causes
us to act in ways that cloud our
wisdom. This is a very dangerous consequence.
If you see others pointing out
your faults and you still feel
unpleasant sensations, then you know
you are still on the downward path
of wisdom, not yet ascending. Remember,
wisdom is the unattainable.  Both are precious. But if someone,
when being pointed out, still feels uncomfortable or
resentful, then they know that they have
n't yet had the opportunity to open their minds and are still keeping their
intellect closed.
That's how we perceive ourselves.
Those who always receive
criticism from the
outside know how to control
their feelings until their hearts are
joyful in the face of criticism. They know
that they can think of things they haven't thought of, and know
things they don't know.
That is an
immense benefit for us if
we live in accordance with the Six Harmonies and are ready to accept criticism. It opens
our minds very quickly, and we will
have the opportunity to open our minds and possess the
wonderful wisdom of an inexperienced teacher. It's the same in the world. If
someone is pointed out and remains stubborn,
they will never develop. Those who are truly skilled are
not stubborn,
and stubborn people cannot be
skilled, right, dear fellow practitioners?
If we haven't yet
accepted the criticism, we must strive to
accept it.  To subdue
one's mind each day, sometimes one day progressing, two
days regressing, but ideally there should be three days of
regression, yet here there has already been one day of progress. Is
n't that good? Because a human body is very difficult to obtain.
We are born as humans, but
we can still fall into the three evil paths for countless eons
before we can ascend to the tenth level.
So, this teaching of the Buddha shows that
we are always regressing, not progressing, right?
So now, if we advance one thought and
retreat five thoughts, it's still good because it's still
progressing one thought. Isn't it gradually progressing
one thought and retreating four thoughts, then
advancing one thought and retreating three thoughts, then
advancing one thought and retreating two thoughts, then advancing one
thought and retreating one thought, and then progressing without
retreating? That's called practicing progress. Do you understand
this point clearly? Many people are afraid, "
I keep practicing, but I keep having afflictions, I'm so
discouraged, I'll stop practicing."
That's not knowing how to practice, not
knowing how to be joyful, because before, they did
n't even recognize
their own afflictions, right? Now they
recognize their afflictions, and now they
recognize their own minds.  Even if it's just a little bit, does that mean you're
progressing in your spiritual practice? Yes, progressing in your
spiritual practice. So, dear fellow practitioners, I ask you,
those of you who are practicing asceticism and have renounced worldly life, have you made a vow to
dedicate your entire life and many lifetimes to
practicing the truth? Do you
want to achieve the truth?
You choose it yourself. That's how you decide whether you live correctly or not, whether you choose to live or are forced to live, right? So, whatever moment we live, we practice our ideals at that moment, right? And when we are free
from this impermanent life,
we continue to
live in another life. That means we
always live with the mindset of being alive,
not being forced to
live. In the outside world, people often say, "
Today I get to do what I want, am I
happy?" Just doing what you want makes you
happy,
right? Today I'm forced to do
this, isn't that suffering? From now on, we are free to
do what we want, we choose, we
promise ourselves, right?
In this environment where we can live according to our own will.  To
achieve
my goals, I'm facing a very
intense environment, like a battlefield.
When someone points out my fault,
I fight them
internally. I don't bring my sword to fight
against others. That's the environment we're in. I don't just
fight internally first, even before knowing right from wrong. Only when things are stable should I
consider whether the
situation is right or wrong, or whether
the person pointing out my fault is correct or not. My
guidance for the public is that when
someone points out your fault, you should turn back and
fight your inner self first,
fighting your own emotions and feelings.
This is the first step.
After fighting, then you can start
asking about the details of the situation and what the problem was. There
are two
mindsets: one is to argue before the fault is even pointed out, and the other is to remain stubborn. The
next day, you don't speak when asked, and you don't respond when called.
That's not living true to yourself,
not living true to yourself.  My ideal
is that I'm making myself suffer,
not that anyone else is making me suffer. I'm
fighting for it myself. Losing the right to
live is
n't difficult, but if I can do it, I can rest assured that I might be in that situation for
about a year. That's already
impressive, right? Being in that situation for a year, when
people point out my mistakes, makes me feel
inwardly uncomfortable. It's like fighting
for a year, and then it's over. That's
already amazing. Who here has as many
people pointing out my mistakes as Yen? Even if
there aren't many, I still get guidance. It's not just one person, but almost the whole world, right? Those who know about this throughout Lam Chau know this story. If anyone knows Yen, they all know this story. It's okay, Buddhists. Yen is
still smiling, not
angry at the whole world, right?
So, we recognize the
situation and we learn from
what we've encountered. That's how
people live their own lives.
Yen, like you, chooses the
path of practicing true meaning, which is her ideal, which is her
own life.  What
I'm
passionate about, what I've achieved, is why I
never feel suppressed living
within my ideals. Who
would be suppressed living within their ideals? It's
just a matter of whether they've accomplished it
or not. For example, if
someone has the intention of building a
house, they have to work every day to earn money
to build it. No one gets upset about earning
money to build a house, right?
Because building a house is their idea, and
they work hard to earn
money to build it. No one gets upset
about working to earn money to build a
house; they only get upset about the person who tells
them to do it, not about
the ideal of working to earn money to build a
house, right, dear fellow practitioners? So
we should also remember
this: our food is
not just rice. What's on the menu today?
Our food is
how many unwholesome thoughts we can digest today.
Otherwise, we'll suffer from bloating.
Our digestion is digesting
unwholesome thoughts; that's our food.  For a
practitioner, if one day
no unwholesome thoughts arise,
then that day we have eaten enough and are
no longer hungry. If there are still unwholesome thoughts,
it means we still have food left to eat and are still
hungry, so we continue eating. If there are
no unwholesome thoughts, we must eat; if we do
n't eat, we will be hungry again. So we keep eating
until the unwholesome thoughts are gone, then we can rest
easy and not have to
look for food anymore. If we
don't finish all the leftover food before going to bed, and
it's left uneaten the next day, it will cause bloating, anger, frustration, and a sullen expression,
right, dear fellow
practitioners? Eating spoiled food is like that, so we must try to eat all the food we have, which represents our unwholesome thoughts. We must eat it all, digest it completely, and then everything will be fine, dear fellow practitioners.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, I have
read in the
meditation steps of the
saints that I really like the step of
eliminating thoughts and feelings. In
this meditation step, the
practitioner is not hungry, that is, not hungry.  Regarding
material things, to enter
this stage, we must first eliminate
all unwholesome thoughts. Only then can we
enter this meditative state.
Therefore,
purifying our minds is what
leads us into
meditation. And for someone who
enters this meditative state, even for just one day, whoever
offers them the
first meal after they
emerges from meditation will receive immeasurable blessings,
enough to
last for countless lifetimes. On the day of the seven-day meditation, he entered into the state of cessation of thoughts and attained
enlightenment. When he emerged from this state,
all the celestial beings in the heavens
vied with each other to descend and
offer him various things. The other day,
those celestial beings, though not very
intelligent, greeted him at the forest gate,
but they manifested all the
heavenly garments and
brought all kinds of exquisite food
to offer
him. When he entered this meditative state, he
left to dedicate his merits to the poorest and
most suffering people. He did not
give any merits to the rich. He went
to a village and found a
dilapidated thatched hut.
So there were the old couple,
still sitting there tearing cloth. Then the
frail old wife went out and saw the
monk. The old man inside the house looked out and saw her, and
said in a hoarse voice, "Wife, see if
you have any leftover food from
yesterday and bring it out to offer to the monks."
The old woman nervously carried a little bit of food,
which was quite meager.
But as soon as the food entered the
bowl of Venerable Kasyapa, he
immediately recognized them as the couple, Indra and his wife. Indra, being
wiser, transformed himself
into a suffering old couple, and Venerable Kasyapa,
too, didn't have any idea.
Therefore, he only thought that when visiting a poor house, he would
accept offerings to give them
some merit. But when the food
fell into the alms bowl
of the Venerable Sariputta, he
immediately recognized them as the
Heavenly Lord Indra. The Heavenly Lord Indra and his
wife, remember, Heavenly Lord Indra? Then
he rebuked them, saying, "At that moment, the
two old men had to reveal their true forms. Then they
said, 'Venerable sir, although I am a Heavenly Lord,
my aura is not as bright
as that of the other generals. Because in the
past, I did not accumulate as much merit as
them, so my aura is not
as bright. And since I am a Heavenly Lord, my
aura is not as bright, it is
very difficult for me. Therefore, please have
mercy on us.' The Venerable one had no choice but to reluctantly accept the
offerings. He said, 'Venerable sir, you two are already so fortunate, yet you still compete for the blessings of the poor! You compete for the blessings of
the poor, and you still do
n't leave any for them!'"  They offered him some relief from suffering,
and he also said that he had such a suffering. At
that time,
the Lord, pleased, had no choice but to relieve him of
his suffering and accept his share of the food. Then the
aura of those two people shone brighter
than that of those who
shone thousands of times brighter than him.
Therefore, the meditative state
of an enlightened person brings such happiness.
Do you like that?
Even if you don't achieve it in this life,
you should continue on to achieve it.
Because if we don't choose
how we live, we still have to live,
right? If we don't choose how we
live, we still have to
live; it doesn't disappear. We
continue to live in the
suffering of sentient beings. So, let's choose how we
live, and in the next life we ​​will still
live, right? Continuously, without
abandoning, and certainly, if we, as monastics,
eradicate unwholesome thoughts daily, there will be
no more karmic ties binding
us. That is, the karmic attachment that binds
us.  It's just a matter of eliminating our own minds;
we still bring blessings to
the world—that's our ideal. For
the benefit of ourselves, for the benefit of all
beings, right? That's the ideal: for the
benefit of ourselves, for the benefit of all beings.
I get to live a life for the benefit of
myself, for the benefit of all beings. I get to
live, right? I get to live with
my ideal,
and I don't need to be trapped in
this world. I don't need to live in
this world, right, dear fellow practitioners?
So, when we are preparing to
enter the path of monastic life, we
must deeply understand this issue, deeply understand
our ideal, and we will serve our own
ideal,
independent of this world, right? [
Applause]
[Music]
No, I [
Music]